# IPO_Valuation_with_Sentiment_Analysis

## I. Research Background
Recently, listed stocks often showed quite high fluctuations during the day as the price fluctuation on the day of listing was applied. Based on this recognition of the problem, we considered ways to reduce excessively high volatility on the day of listing by proposing a public offering price that properly reflects corporate value. In the case of the existing method of calculating the public offering price band, the desired public offering price band is calculated first and then confirmed by reflecting only the demand of the institution, and I thought that if the competition rate for personal applications is reflected in addition, it could be a more precise methodology for appropriate value evaluation. Through this, we wanted to propose a way to ultimately improve the soundness of the issuing market.

## II. Project Overview
As a result of analyzing the returns on the day of listing for companies listed over the past three years, most companies' stock prices on the day of listing have risen compared to the public offering price. We tried to create a regression equation to explain the closing price of unlisted companies on the day of listing under the hypothesis that if the final public offering price reflects the corporate value well, the closing price should be similar to the stock price on the day of listing. We selected valuation-related financial indicators, financial soundness indicators, and listing and macro-related indicators as variables. However, in the case of unlisted companies, there were many missing information related to the company, and unstructured data sentiment analysis was used to compensate for this. We analyzed people's psychology through texts related to the market atmosphere that we crawled from the community and derived monthly emotional scores to divide the market phase. It was divided into two main panels and derived a regression equation for each of the falling and rising markets. Based on the derived regression equation, we reverse the individual subscription competition rate of new unlisted companies and proposed a method of adjusting the public offering price based on the estimated individual subscription competition rate. Ultimately, we considered ways to improve the volatility risk of public offering shares as a new valuation model for unlisted companies that are different from the traditional method of using only structured data.

## III. Project Methodology
Multiple regression analysis was conducted by setting operating margin, checking ratio, EPS, ROE, subscription competition ratio, and interest rate as independent variables, and listing day rate of return as dependent variables. Additional emotional panels were introduced because the regression coefficient of financial indicators was not significant, and the explanatory power of regression analysis itself was low. The explanatory power improved somewhat when the panel was classified into a downtrend and an uptrend depending on the atmosphere of the domestic market and the regression equation was derived, but it was still judged that there was a limit to accurately predicting the fluctuation rate of stock prices. Therefore, we tried to increase the accuracy of the prediction even if the range of the model's explanation became small by using logistic regression that determines only simple fluctuations.

## IV. Conclusion
In the case of logistic regression analysis that introduced an emotional panel, the accuracy was around 75%, and the logistic regression equation was used to estimate the individual subscription competition rate of unlisted companies before the public offering price was actually confirmed. Based on the calculated estimated individual subscription competition rate, the final public offering price was derived by using a control function that increases the public offering price lower than this and the public offering price higher below this compared to the average individual subscription competition rate. In conclusion, through emotional analysis using unstructured data and reflection of the predicted individual subscription competition rate, we tried to improve the volatility risk of public offering stocks because the existing public offering price did not sufficiently reflect the corporate value. We hope that this study helped improve the soundness of the IPO market and create a more stable market.
